src/pages/2021-01-21_fonts_on_ipad_2021_edition.mdx, before:

# Fonts on iPad 2021 Edition

Last spring [I wrote about fonts on iPad](https://notebook.lachlanjc.com/2020-04-13_fonts_on_ipad/), looking at the multitude of bad options for installing custom fonts on my favorite operating system. Good news! I have an update, & it’s quick.

**Just use [Fontcase](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fontcase-manage-your-type/id1205074470?uo=4).** It has a much simpler & prettier design, it’s free, it’s made by the [Iconfactory](https://iconfactory.com) & even [open source](https://github.com/manolosavi/xFonts).

![Screenshot of Fontcase on iPad](https://res.craft.do/user/preview/ed1a5d33-35bf-4add-9806-36a24cb98e5e/doc/4C37EC18-2180-45D4-AA68-B2C64D8075F8/8F2FAE1E-78A8-40B6-8F8A-4872F1563867_1)

In Fontcase, it’s easy to import fonts from Files using the “Import” button, & it’s more seamless setting up the system profile since it uses a single profile for all the fonts in Fontcase, versus individual profiles for each font like [AnyFont](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/anyfont/id821560738?uo=4).

If you work with Figma, Fontcase works great with your Figma projects via the unbelievably-great app [Figurative](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/figurative/id1510607687?uo=4), which is somehow free. Figurative could easily charge $20—instead of the semi-broken version in Safari, you get a fully-functioning Figma on iPad. I much prefer it to traditional computers since I can use my fingers & Apple Pencil, avoiding the RSI I get from using a trackpad/mouse. All your fonts are available, drawing works properly with the Pencil, & when you export layers it activates the native iPadOS share sheet for sending or saving to files. (If you want to save directly to a server, [Secure ShellFish](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/secure-shellfish-ssh-sftp/id1336634154?uo=4) is the way to go.)

![Screenshot of Figurative on iPad with a text layer in a custom font](https://res.craft.do/user/preview/ed1a5d33-35bf-4add-9806-36a24cb98e5e/doc/4C37EC18-2180-45D4-AA68-B2C64D8075F8/87C5F8B4-72AA-4089-9504-7A08D2BA2689_1)

Fontcase is a must-have utility for designers using an iPad. I’ve added both Fontcase & Figurative to [my Tools page](https://notebook.lachlanjc.com/tools), & all the apps I’ve mentioned are free.

Commit message:

Update fonts post with app grid

src/pages/2021-01-21_fonts_on_ipad_2021_edition.mdx, after:

import { AppGrid } from '../components/blocks'

# Fonts on iPad, 2021 Edition

Last spring [I wrote about fonts on iPad](https://notebook.lachlanjc.com/2020-04-13_fonts_on_ipad/), looking at the multitude of bad options for installing custom fonts on my favorite operating system. Good news! I have an update, & it’s quick.

**Just use [Fontcase](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fontcase-manage-your-type/id1205074470?uo=4).** It has a much simpler & prettier design, it’s free, it’s made by the [Iconfactory](https://iconfactory.com) & even [open source](https://github.com/manolosavi/xFonts).

![Screenshot of Fontcase on iPad](https://res.craft.do/user/preview/ed1a5d33-35bf-4add-9806-36a24cb98e5e/doc/4C37EC18-2180-45D4-AA68-B2C64D8075F8/8F2FAE1E-78A8-40B6-8F8A-4872F1563867_1)

In Fontcase, it’s easy to import fonts from Files using the “Import” button, & it’s more seamless setting up the system profile since it uses a single profile for all the fonts in Fontcase, versus individual profiles for each font like [AnyFont](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/anyfont/id821560738?uo=4).

![Screenshot of Figurative on iPad with a text layer in a custom font](https://res.craft.do/user/preview/ed1a5d33-35bf-4add-9806-36a24cb98e5e/doc/4C37EC18-2180-45D4-AA68-B2C64D8075F8/87C5F8B4-72AA-4089-9504-7A08D2BA2689_1)

If you work with Figma, Fontcase works great with your Figma projects via the unbelievably-great app [Figurative](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/figurative/id1510607687?uo=4), which is somehow free. Figurative could easily charge \$20—instead of the semi-broken version in Safari, you get a fully-functioning Figma on iPad. I much prefer it to traditional computers since I can use my fingers & Apple Pencil, avoiding the RSI I get from using a trackpad/mouse. All your fonts are available, drawing works properly with the Pencil, & when you export layers it activates the native iPadOS share sheet for sending or saving to files. (If you want to save directly to a server, [Secure ShellFish](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/secure-shellfish-ssh-sftp/id1336634154?uo=4) is the way to go.)

<AppGrid mt={5} mb={4}>

- [![Fontcase - Manage Your Type](https://is2-ssl.mzstatic.com/image/thumb/Purple123/v4/a9/81/70/a981705f-50bd-c28b-c051-235c830e1efa/source/512x512bb.png) Fontcase](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fontcase-manage-your-type/id1205074470?uo=4)
- [![Figurative](https://is5-ssl.mzstatic.com/image/thumb/Purple124/v4/ca/ef/dd/caefdde7-19bc-e759-d534-0c9720509b3c/source/512x512bb.png) Figurative for&nbsp;Figma](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/figurative/id1510607687?uo=4)
- [![Secure ShellFish - SSH & SFTP](https://is1-ssl.mzstatic.com/image/thumb/Purple114/v4/bc/8d/3b/bc8d3b47-6c70-a96e-e654-268caa8ca84e/source/512x512bb.png) Secure ShellFish](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/secure-shellfish-ssh-sftp/id1336634154?uo=4)

</AppGrid>

Fontcase is a must-have utility for designers using an iPad. I’ve added both Fontcase & Figurative to [my Tools page](https://notebook.lachlanjc.com/tools), & all the apps I’ve mentioned are free.
